docs: Add limitations to __validate__ function (#945)
starknet-io/starknet-docs: components/Starknet/modules/architecture_and_concepts/pages/Accounts/deploying_new_accounts.adoc

[id="deploying_new_accounts"]
= Deploying a new account

The `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction deploys new accounts to the network.

Upon receiving a `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction, the sequencer performs the following steps:

. Verifies that the address has funds to pay for the deployment.
. Executes the constructor with the given arguments.

> . Executes the `+__validate_deploy__+` entry point. For more information, see xref:#validate_deploy[].

Author: So I'm leaving this as-is.

. Charges fees from the new account address.
. Sets the account's nonce to `1`.

> .Procedure

Reviewer: I would add to this section a link to the developer tools, and mention that most of them offer an easy way to complete the steps below.

. For the account contract that you want to deploy, compute the offchain account address.
// How do I do that?
. Send funds to this address.
// How do I do that?
. When the address has enough funds to pay for the deployment, send a `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction.

> // How do I do that?

Author: Done. Removed steps.

> After the deployment has completed successfully, it is recommended to validate the account deployment.

Author: It means to use `__validate_deploy__`

[#DEPLOY_ACCOUNT_restrictions]

> == `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` contructor restrictions

Author: ```suggestion
== `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` constructor restrictions
```

> == `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` contructor restrictions

Reviewer: @ArielElp Please verify this section

> == `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` contructor restrictions

Author: ```suggestion
== `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` constructor restrictions
```

> == `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` constructor restrictions

Reviewer 2: These restrictions apply uniformly to:
1. validate
2. validate_deploy
3. validate_declare
4. constructor, when ran in a DEPLOY_ACCOUNT txn (i.e. if an account is deployed from an existing via the deploy syscall, the constructor can run differently)

Hence, these restrictions should be under general validate limitations section. This new section should start with the motivation of DOS protection around validate, which is atm somewhere below.

Author: Done

The constructor of the `+DEPLOY_ACCOUNT+` transaction has the following limitations:

* Restricted access to `+sequencer_address+` in the `+get_execution_info+` syscall. The syscall returns zero values for `+sequencer_address+`
* Restricted access to the following syscalls:

> ** `+get_block_hash+` for Cairo contracts

Reviewer 2: "Cairo contracts" is weird because all contracts are Cairo, I would say:
1. get_block_hash
2. get_sequencer_address (only exists for Cairo 0 contracts)

Also, replace restricted with "the following syscalls are not callable"

** `+get_sequencer_address+` for Cairo 0 contracts

[#validate_deploy]
== Validating a `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction

> Two potential issues with sending a `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction without any validation are:

Reviewer 2: Replace this sentence with "We need to make sure that the account deployment flow is not open to either of the two following attack vectors"

* Sequencers can charge arbitrarily high fees, potentially draining user funds from a pre-funded account.

> * A bad actor can carry out a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on the sequencer by sending multiple, invalid `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transactions, which would result in the sequencer not being compensated for work completed.

Reviewer 2: invalid --> invalid (due to constructor or validate_deploy failing)

> You can prevent both issues by using a validation entrypoint called `+__validate_deploy__+`.

Reviewer: AFAIK `validate_deploy` is mandatory.

Author: @ArielElp Can you confirm that it is mandatory?

Reviewer 2: It is mandatory if you want to deploy the account with a deploy_account transaction. This is not a choice, "you" can't and shouldn't prevent DoS, it's the protocol's job of taking care that there are no open DOS vectors. This potential DoS are the reason we are restricting validate_deploy and the constructor during the execution of a deploy_account transaction.

Replace this sentence (and the limitation description below) with:
The requirement to pass validate_deploy after the constructor execution as a prerequisite for charging fees solves 1, and the limitations on validate execution [link to the new limitation section I suggested above] solves 2.

`+__validate_deploy__+` prevents sequencers from charging arbitrarily high fees, and the following limitations on the constructor and `+__validate_deploy__+` executions prevent a potential DoS attack:

* Limited number of Cairo steps.
* Limited number of times a builtin can be applied.
* External contract calls are not allowed. Library calls and self-calls are allowed.

Include the `+__validate_deploy__+` entrypoint in any accounts or contracts that can enable deploying a new account.

== `+__validate_deploy__+`

Validates a `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction.

[discrete]
=== Parameters

[horizontal,labelwidth="35",role="stripes-odd"]
`class_hash: _felt_`:: The class hash.
`contract_address_salt: _felt_`:: The contract address salt.

> `<__constructor_arguments__>`:: The arguments expected by the contract’s constructor. The compiler enforces this constructor.

Reviewer 2: The compiler enforces that the inputs to the constructor are identical to the rest of the inputs for validate_deploy.

[NOTE]
====

> In determining the contract address, the deployer address `0x0` is used.

Reviewer 2: Link to contract address computation page

====

[discrete]

> === Example

Reviewer: The example is in Cairo 0, should be replaced.

Reviewer 2: an updated example:

      fn __validate_deploy__(
          self: @ComponentState<TContractState>,
          class_hash: felt252,
          contract_address_salt: felt252,
          public_key: felt252
      ) -> felt252

    #[constructor]
    fn constructor(ref self: ContractState, public_key: felt252)

(ignore the component state / contractstate arguments)

[id="deploying_new_accounts"]
= Deploying a new account

The `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction deploys new accounts to the network.

Upon receiving a `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction, the sequencer performs the following steps:

. Verifies that the address has funds to pay for the deployment.
. Executes the constructor with the given arguments.
. Executes the `+__validate_deploy__+` entry point. For more information, see xref:#validate_deploy[].
. Charges fees from the new account address.
. Sets the account's nonce to `1`.

.Procedure

> . Decide on the account contract that you want to deploy.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> . Compute your offchain account address.

Author: ```suggestion
. For the account contract that you want to deploy, compute the offchain account address.
```

The constructor of the `+DEPLOY_ACCOUNT+` transaction has the following limitations:

* Restricted access to `+sequencer_address+` in the `+get_execution_info+` syscall. The syscall returns zero values for `+sequencer_address+`
* Restricted access to the following syscalls:
** `+get_block_hash+` for Cairo contracts
** `+get_sequencer_address+` for Cairo 0 contracts

[#validate_deploy]
== Validating a `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction

Two potential issues with sending a `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transaction without any validation are:

* Sequencers can charge arbitrarily high fees, potentially draining user funds from a pre-funded account.
* A bad actor can carry out a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on the sequencer by sending multiple, invalid `DEPLOY_ACCOUNT` transactions, which would result in the sequencer not being compensated for work completed.

You can prevent both issues by using a validation entrypoint called `+__validate_deploy__+`.

`+__validate_deploy__+` prevents sequencers from charging arbitrarily high fees, and the following limitations on the constructor and `+__validate_deploy__+` executions prevent a potential DoS attack:

* Limited number of Cairo steps.

> * Limited number of builtin applications.

Author: ```suggestion
* Limited number of times a builtin can be applied.
```

In order to deploy a new account on StarkNet you need to complete the following steps:

* Decide on the account contract that you want to deploy

> * Compute your would-be account address offchain

Author: ```suggestion
. Compute your offchain account address.
```

* Send funds to this address

> Once the address has enough funds to pay for the deployment, you can then send a `deploy_account` transaction.

Author: ```suggestion
. When the address has enough funds to pay for the deployment, send a _Deploy account_ transaction.
```
